ACCAMS: Additive Co-Clustering to Approximate Matrices Succinctly
ACCAMS
Matrix completion and approximation are popular tools to capture a user's preferences for recommendation and to approximate missing data. Instead of using low-rank factorization we take a drastically different approach, based on the simple insight that an additive model of co-clusterings allows one to approximate matrices efficiently. This allows us to build a concise model that, per bit of model learned, significantly beats all factorization approaches in matrix completion. Even more surprisingly, we find that summing over small co-clusterings is more effective in modeling matrices than classic co-clustering, which uses just one large partitioning of the matrix. Following Occam's razor principle, the fact that our model is more concise and yet just as accurate as more complex models suggests that it better captures the latent preferences and decision making processes present in the real world. We provide an iterative minimization algorithm, a collapsed Gibbs sampler, theoretical guarantees for matrix approximation, and excellent empirical evidence for the efficacy of our approach. We achieve state-of-the-art results for matrix completion on Netflix at a fraction of the model complexity.
Cascading Outbreak Prediction in Networks: A Data-Driven Approach
OSLOR
Cascades are ubiquitous in various network environments such as epidemic networks, traffic networks, water distribution networks and social networks. The outbreaks of cascades will often bring bad or even devastating effects. How to accurately predict the cascading outbreaks in early stage is of paramount importance for people to avoid these bad effects. Although there have been some pioneering works on cascading outbreaks detection, how to predict, rather than detect, the cascading outbreaks is still an open problem. In this paper, we attempt harnessing historical cascade data, propose a novel data driven approach to select important nodes as sensors, and predict the outbreaks based on the cascading behaviors of these sensors. In particular, we propose Orthogonal Sparse LOgistic Regression (OSLOR) method to jointly optimize node selection and outbreak prediction, where the prediction loss are combined with an orthogonal regularizer and L1 regularizer to guarantee good prediction accuracy, as well as the sparsity and low-redundancy of selected sensors. We evaluate the proposed method on a real online social network dataset including 182.7 million information cascades. The experimental results show that the proposed OSLOR significantly and consistently outperform topological measure based method and other data driven methods in prediction performances.
CatchSync: Catching Synchronized Behavior in Large Directed Graphs
CatchSync
Given a directed graph of millions of nodes, how can we automatically spot anomalous, suspicious nodes, judging only from their connectivity patterns? Suspicious graph patterns show up in many applications, from Twitter users who buy fake followers, manipulating the social network, to botnet members performing distributed denial of service attacks, disturbing the network traffic graph. We propose a fast and effective method, CATCHSYNC, which exploits two of the tell-tale signs left in graphs by fraudsters: (a) synchronized behavior: suspicious nodes have extremely similar behavior pattern, because they are often required to perform some task together (such as follow the same user); and (b) rare behavior: their connectivity patterns are very different from the majority. We introduce novel measures to quantify both concepts (¡°synchronicity¡± and ¡°normality¡±) and we propose a parameter-free algorithm that works on the resulting synchronicity-normality plots. Thanks to careful design, CATCHSYNC has the following desirable properties: (a) it is scalable to large datasets, being linear on the graph size; (b) it is parameter free; and (c) it is side-informationoblivious: it can operate using only the topology, without needing labeled data, nor timing information, etc., while still capable of using side information, if available. We applied CATCHSYNC on two large, real datasets 1-billion-edge Twitter social graph and 3-billion-edge Tencent Weibo social graph, and several synthetic ones; CATCHSYNC consistently outperforms existing competitors, both in detection accuracy by 36% on Twitter and 20% on Tencent Weibo, as well as in speed.
Catching Synchronized Behaviors in Large Networks: A Graph Mining Approach
CatchSync+
Given a directed graph of millions of nodes, how can we automatically spot anomalous, suspicious nodes judging only from their connectivity patterns? Suspicious graph patterns show up in many applications, from Twitter users who buy fake followers, manipulating the social network, to botnet members performing distributed denial of service attacks, disturbing the network traffic graph.We propose a fast and effective method, CATCHSYNC, which exploits two of the tell-tale signs left in graphs by fraudsters: (a) synchronized behavior: suspicious nodes have extremely similar behavior patterns because they are often required to perform some task together (such as follow the same user); and (b) rare behavior: their connectivity patterns are very different from the majority. We introduce novel measures to quantify both concepts (¡°synchronicity¡± and ¡°normality¡±) and we propose a parameter-free algorithm that works on the resulting synchronicity-normality plots. Thanks to careful design, CATCHSYNC has the following desirable properties: (a) it is scalable to large datasets, being linear in the graph size; (b) it is parameter free; and (c) it is side-information-oblivious: it can operate using only the topology, without needing labeled data, nor timing information, etc., while still capable of using side information if available. We applied CATCHSYNC on three large, real datasets 1-billion-edge Twitter social graph, 3-billion-edge and 12-billion-edge Tencent Weibo social graphs, and several synthetic ones; CATCHSYNC consistently outperforms existing competitors, both in detection accuracy by 36% on Twitter and 20% on Tencent Weibo, as well as in speed.
CoBaFi: Collaborative Bayesian Filtering
CoBaFi
Given a large dataset of users' ratings of movies, what is the best model to accurately predict which movies a person will like? And how can we prevent spammers from tricking our algorithms into suggesting a bad movie? Is it possible to infer structure between movies simultaneously? In this paper we describe a unified Bayesian approach to Collaborative Filtering that accomplishes all of these goals. It models the discrete structure of ratings and is flexible to the often non-Gaussian shape of the distribution. Additionally, our method finds a co-clustering of the users and items, which improves the model's accuracy and makes the model robust to fraud. We offer three main contributions: (1) We provide a novel model and Gibbs sampling algorithm that accurately models the quirks of real world ratings, such as convex ratings distributions. (2) We provide proof of our model's robustness to spam and anomalous behavior. (3) We use several real world datasets to demonstrate the model's effectiveness in accurately predicting user's ratings, avoiding prediction skew in the face of injected spam, and finding interesting patterns in real world ratings data.
Comparing Apples to Oranges: A Scalable Solution with Heterogeneous Hashing
RaHH
Although hashing techniques have been popular for the large scale similarity search problem, most of the existing methods for designing optimal hash functions focus on homogeneous similarity assessment, i.e., the data entities to be indexed are of the same type. Realizing that heterogeneous entities and relationships are also ubiquitous in the real world applications, there is an emerging need to retrieve and search similar or relevant data entities from multiple heterogeneous domains, e.g., recommending relevant posts and images to a certain Facebook user. In this paper, we address the problem of ¡°comparing apples to oranges¡± under the large scale setting. Specifically, we propose a novel Relation-aware Heterogeneous Hashing (RaHH), which provides a general framework for generating hash codes of data entities sitting in multiple heterogeneous domains. Unlike some existing hashing methods that map heterogeneous data in a common Hamming space, the RaHH approach constructs a Hamming space for each type of data entities, and learns optimal mappings between them simultaneously. This makes the learned hash codes flexibly cope with the characteristics of different data domains. Moreover, the RaHH framework encodes both homogeneous and heterogeneous relationships between the data entities to design hash functions with improved accuracy. To validate the proposed RaHH method, we conduct extensive evaluations on two large datasets; one is crawled from a popular social media sites, Tencent Weibo, and the other is an open dataset of Flickr(NUS-WIDE). The experimental results clearly demonstrate that the RaHH outperforms several state-of-the-art hashing methods with significant performance gains.
CopyCatch: Stopping Group Attacks by Spotting Lockstep Behavior in Social Networks
CopyCatch
How can web services that depend on user generated content discern fraudulent input by spammers from legitimate input? In this paper we focus on the social network Facebook and the problem of discerning ill-gotten Page Likes, made by spammers hoping to turn a profit, from legitimate Page Likes. Our method, which we refer to as CopyCatch, detects lockstep Page Like patterns on Facebook by analyzing only the social graph between users and Pages and the times at which the edges in the graph (the Likes) were created. We offer the following contributions: (1) We give a novel problem formulation, with a simple concrete definition of suspicious behavior in terms of graph structure and edge constraints. (2) We offer two algorithms to find such suspicious lockstep behavior - one provably-convergent iterative algorithm and one approximate, scalable MapReduce implementation. (3) We show that our method severely limits\greedy attacks" and analyze the bounds from the application of the Zarankiewicz problem to our setting. Finally, we demonstrate and discuss the effectiveness of CopyCatch at Facebook and on synthetic data, as well as potential extensions to anomaly detection problems in other domains. CopyCatch is actively in use at Facebook, searching for attacks on Facebook's social graph of over a billion users, many millions of Pages, and billions of Page Likes.
Detecting Suspicious Following Behavior in Multimillion-Node Social Networks
CatchSync-
In a multimillion-node network of who-follows-whom like Twitter, since a high count of followers leads to higher profits, users have the incentive to boost their in-degree. Can we spot the suspicious following behavior, which may indicate zombie followers and suspicious followees? To answer the above question, we propose CatchSync, which exploits two tell-tale signs of the suspicious behavior: (a) synchronized behavior: the zombie followers have extremely similar following behavior pattern, because, say, they are generated by a script; and (b) abnormal behavior: their behavior pattern is very different from the majority. Our CatchSync introduces novel measures to quantify both concepts and catches the suspicious behavior. Moreover, we show it is effective in a real-world social network.
FEMA: Flexible Evolutionary Multi-faceted Analysis for Dynamic Behavioral Pattern Discovery
FEMA
Behavioral pattern discovery is increasingly being studied to understand human behavior and the discovered patterns can be used in many real world applications such as web search, recommender system and advertisement targeting. Traditional methods usually consider the behaviors as simple user and item connections, or represent them with a static model. In real world, however, human behaviors are actually complex and dynamic: they include correlations between user and multiple types of objects and also continuously evolve along time. These characteristics cause severe data sparsity and computational complexity problem, which pose great challenge to human behavioral analysis and prediction. In this paper, we propose a Flexible Evolutionary Multi-faceted Analysis (FEMA) framework for both behavior prediction and pattern mining. FEMA utilizes a flexible and dynamic factorization scheme for analyzing human behavioral data sequences, which can incorporate various knowledge embedded in different object domains to alleviate the sparsity problem. We give approximation algorithms for efficiency, where the bound of approximation loss is theoretically proved. We extensively evaluate the proposed method in two real datasets. For the prediction of human behaviors, the proposed FEMA significantly outperforms other state-of-the-art baseline methods by 17.4%. Moreover, FEMA is able to discover quite a number of interesting multi-faceted temporal patterns on human behaviors with good interpretability. More importantly, it can reduce the run time from hours to minutes, which is significant for industry to serve real-time applications.
Inferring Strange Behavior from Connectivity Pattern in Social Networks
LockInfer
Given a multimillion-node social network, how can we summarize connectivity pattern from the data, and how can we find unexpected user behavior? In this paper we study a complete graph from a large who-follows-whom network and spot lockstep behavior that large groups of followers connect to the same groups of followees. Our first contribution is that we study strange patterns on the adjacency matrix and in the spectral subspaces with respect to several flavors of lockstep. We discover that (a) the lockstep behavior on the graph shapes dense \block" in its adjacency matrix and creates \ray" in spectral subspaces, and (b) partially overlapping of the behavior shapes \staircase" in the matrix and creates \pearl" in the subspaces. The second contribution is that we provide a fast algorithm, using the discovery as a guide for practitioners, to detect users who offer the lockstep behavior. We demonstrate that our approach is effective on both synthetic and real data.
Interacting Viruses on a Network: Can both survive?
BothSurvive
Suppose we have two competing ideas/products/viruses, that propagate over a social or other network. Suppose that they are strong/virulent enough, so that each, if left alone, could lead to an epidemic. What will happen when both operate on the network? Earlier models assume that there is perfect competition: if a user buys product `A' (or gets infected with virus `X'), she will never buy product `B' (or virus `Y'). This is not always true: for example, a user could install and use both Firefox and Google Chrome as browsers. Similarly, one type of flu may give partial immunity against some other similar disease. In the case of full competition, it is known that `winner takes all,' that is the weaker virus/product will become extinct. In the case of no competition, both viruses survive, ignoring each other. What happens in-between these two extremes? We show that there is a phase transition: if the competition is harsher than a critical level, then `winner takes all;' otherwise, the weaker virus survives. These are the contributions of this paper (a) the problem definition, which is novel even in epidemiology literature [3, 17, 35] (b) the phase-transition result and (c) experiments on real data, illustrating the suitability of our results.
Item-Level Social Influence Prediction with Probabilistic Hybrid Factor Matrix Factorization
PHF-MF
Social influence has become the essential factor which drives the dynamic evolution process of social network structure and user behaviors. Previous research often focus on social influence analysis in network-level or topic-level. In this paper, we concentrate on predicting item-level social influence to reveal the users¡¯ influences in a more fine-grained level. We formulate the social influence prediction problem as the estimation of a user-post matrix, where each entry in the matrix represents the social influence strength the corresponding user has given the corresponding web post. To deal with the sparsity and complex factor challenges in the research, we model the problem by extending the probabilistic matrix factorization method to incorporate rich prior knowledge on both user dimension and web post dimension, and propose the Probabilistic Hybrid Factor Matrix Factorization (PHFMF) approach. Intensive experiments are conducted on a real world online social network to demonstrate the advantages and characteristics of the proposed method.
ND-SYNC: Detecting Synchronized Fraud Activities
ND-SYNC
Given the retweeting activity for the posts of several Twitter users, how can we distinguish organic activity from spammy retweets by paid followers to boost a post¡¯s appearance of popularity? More generally, given groups of observations, can we spot strange groups? Our main intuition is that organic behavior has more variability, while fraudulent behavior, like retweets by botnet members, is more synchronized. We refer to the detection of such synchronized observations as the Synchonization Fraud problem, and we study a specific instance of it, Retweet Fraud Detection, which is manifested in Twitter. Here, we propose: (A) ND-SYNC, an efficient method for detecting group fraud, and (B) a set of carefully designed features for characterizing retweet threads. ND-SYNC is effective in spotting retweet fraudsters, robust to different types of abnormal activity, and adaptable since it can easily incorporate more/different features. Focusing on the Retweet Fraud problem, ND-SYNC achieves a 97% accuracy on a real dataset of approximately 12 million retweets crawled from Twitter.
Non-transitive Hashing with Latent Similarity Components
MuCH
Approximating the semantic similarity between entities in the learned Hamming space is the key for supervised hashing techniques. The semantic similarities between entities are often non-transitive since they could share different latent similarity components. For example, in social networks, we connect with people for various reasons, such as sharing common interests, working in the same company, being alumni and so on. Obviously, these social connections are non-transitive if people are connected due to different reasons. However, existing supervised hashing methods treat the pairwise similarity relationships in a simple and unified way and project data into a single Hamming space, while neglecting that the non-transitive property cannot be adequately captured by a single Hamming space. In this paper, we propose a non-transitive hashing method, namely Multi-Component Hashing (MuCH), to identify the latent similarity components to cope with the non-transitive similarity relationships. MuCH generates multiple hash tables with each hash table corresponding to a similarity component, and preserves the non-transitive similarities in different hash table respectively. Moreover, we propose a similarity measure, called Multi-Component Similarity, aggregating Hamming similarities in multiple hash tables to capture the non-transitive property of semantic similarity. We conduct extensive experiments on one synthetic dataset and two public real-world datasets (i.e. DBLP and NUS-WIDE). The results clearly demonstrate that the proposed MuCH method significantly outperforms the state-of-art hashing methods especially on search efficiency.
Perceiving Group Themes from Collective Social and Behavioral Information
REXER
Collective social and behavioral information commonly exists in nature. There is a widespread intuitive sense that the characteristics of these social and behavioral information are to some extend related to the themes (or semantics) of the activities or targets. In this paper, we explicitly validate the interplay of collective social behavioral information and group themes using a large scale real dataset of online groups, and demonstrate the possibility of perceiving group themes from collective social and behavioral information. We propose a REgularized miXEd Regression (REXER) model based on matrix factorization to infer hierarchical semantics (including both group category and group labels) from collective social and behavioral information of group members.We extensively evaluate the proposed method in a large scale real online group dataset. For the prediction of group themes, the proposed REXER achieves satisfactory performances in various criterions. More specifically, we can predict the category of a group (among 6 categories) purely based on the collective social and behavioral information of the group with the Precision@1 to be 55.16% , without any assistance from group labels or conversation contents. We also show, perhaps counterintuitively, that the collective social and behavioral information is more reliable than the titles and labels of groups for inferring the group categories.
Probabilistic Attributed Hashing
PAH
Due to the simplicity and efficiency, many hashing methods have recently been developed for large-scale similarity search. Most of the existing hashing methods focus on mapping low-level features to binary codes, but neglect attributes that are commonly associated with data samples. Attribute data, such as image tag, product brand, and user profile, can represent human recognition better than low-level features. However, attributes have specific characteristics, including high-dimensional, sparse and categorical properties, which is hardly leveraged into the existing hashing learning frameworks. In this paper, we propose a hashing learning framework, Probabilistic Attributed Hashing (PAH), to integrate attributes with low-level features. The connections between attributes and low-level features are built through sharing a common set of latent binary variables, i.e. hash codes, through which attributes and features can complement each other. Finally, we develop an efficient iterative learning algorithm, which is generally feasible for large-scale applications. Extensive experiments and comparison study are conducted on two public datasets, i.e., DBLP and NUS-WIDE. The results clearly demonstrate that the proposed PAH method substantially outperforms the peer methods.
Scalable Recommendation with Social Contextual Information
ContextMF+
Exponential growth of information generated by online social networks demands effective and scalable recommender systems to give useful results. Traditional techniques become unqualified because they ignore social relation data; existing social recommendation approaches consider social network structure, but social contextual information has not been fully considered. It is significant and challenging to fuse social contextual factors which are derived from users¡¯ motivation of social behaviors into social recommendation. In this paper, we investigate the social recommendation problem on the basis of psychology and sociology studies, which exhibit two important factors: individual preference and interpersonal influence. We first present the particular importance of these two factors in online behavior prediction. Then we propose a novel probabilistic matrix factorization method to fuse them in latent space. We further provide a scalable algorithm which can incrementally process the large scale data. We conduct experiments on both Facebook style bidirectional and Twitter style unidirectional social network data sets. The empirical results and analysis on these two large data sets demonstrate that our method significantly outperforms the existing approaches.
Social Contextual Recommendation
ContextMF
Exponential growth of information generated by online social networks demands effective recommender systems to give useful results. Traditional techniques become unqualified because they ignore social relation data; existing social recommendation approaches consider social network structure, but social context has not been fully considered. It is significant and challenging to fuse social contextual factors which are derived from users¡¯ motivation of social behaviors into social recommendation. In this paper, we investigate social recommendation on the basis of psychology and sociology studies, which exhibit two important factors: individual preference and interpersonal influence. We first present the particular importance of these two factors in online item adoption and recommendation. Then we propose a novel probabilistic matrix factorization method to fuse them in latent spaces. We conduct experiments on both Facebook style bidirectional and Twitter style unidirectional social network datasets in China. The empirical result and analysis on these two large datasets demonstrate that our method significantly outperform the existing approaches.
Social Recommendation Across Multiple Relational Domains
HRW
Social networks enable users to create different types of personal items. In dealing with serious information overload, the major problems of social recommendation are sparsity and cold start. In existing approaches, relational and heterogeneous domains can not be effectively utilized for social recommendation, which brings a challenge to model users and multiple types of items together on social networks. In this paper, we consider how to represent social networks with multiple relational domains and alleviate the major problems in an individual domain by transferring knowledge from other domains. We propose a novel Hybrid Random Walk (HRW), which can integrate multiple heterogeneous domains including directed/undirected links, signed/unsigned links and within-domain/cross-domain links into a star-structured hybrid graph with user graph at the center. We perform random walk until convergence and use the steady state distribution for recommendation. We conduct experiments on a real social network dataset and show that our method can significantly outperform existing social recommendation approaches.
Social Recommendation with Cross-Domain Transferable Knowledge
HRW+
Recommender systems can suffer from data sparsity and cold start issues. However, social networks, which enable users to build relationships and create different types of items, present an unprecedented opportunity to alleviate these issues. In this paper, we represent a social network as a star-structured hybrid graph centered on a social domain, which connects with other item domains. With this innovative representation, useful knowledge from an auxiliary domain can be transferred through the social domain to a target domain. Various factors of item transferability, including popularity and behavioral consistency, are determined. We propose a novel Hybrid Random Walk (HRW) method, which incorporates such factors, to select transferable items in auxiliary domains, bridge cross-domain knowledge with the social domain, and accurately predict user-item links in a target domain. Extensive experiments on a real social dataset demonstrate that HRW significantly outperforms existing approaches.
Spotting Suspicious Link Behavior with fBox: An Adversarial Perspective
fBox
How can we detect suspicious users in large online networks? Online popularity of a user or product (via follows, page-likes, etc.) can be monetized on the premise of higher ad click-through rates or increased sales. Web services and social networks which incentivize popularity thus suffer from a major problem of fake connections from link fraudsters looking to make a quick buck. Typical methods of catching this suspicious behavior use spectral techniques to spot large groups of often blatantly fraudulent (but sometimes honest) users. However, small-scale, stealthy attacks may go unnoticed due to the nature of low-rank eigenanalysis used in practice. In this work, we take an adversarial approach to find and prove claims about the weaknesses of modern, state-of-the-art spectral methods and propose FBOX, an algorithm designed to catch small-scale, stealth attacks that slip below the radar. Our algorithm has the following desirable properties: (a) it has theoretical underpinnings, (b) it is shown to be highly effective on real data and (c) it is scalable (linear on the input size). We evaluate FBOX on a large, public 41.7 million node, 1.5 billion edge who-follows-whom social graph from Twitter in 2010 and with high precision identify many suspicious accounts which have persisted without suspension even to this day.
Who Should Share What? Item-level Social Influence Prediction for Users and Posts Ranking
HF-NMF
People and information are two core dimensions in a social network. People sharing information (such as blogs, news, albums, etc.) is the basic behavior. In this paper, we focus on predicting item-level social influence to answer the question Who should share What, which can be extended into two information retrieval scenarios: (1) Users ranking: given an item, who should share it so that its diffusion range can be maximized in a social network; (2) Web posts ranking: given a user, what should she share to maximize her influence among her friends. We formulate the social influence prediction problem as the estimation of a user-post matrix, in which each entry represents the strength of influence of a user given a web post. We propose a Hybrid Factor Non-Negative Matrix Factorization (HF-NMF) approach for item-level social influence modeling, and devise an efficient projected gradient method to solve the HF-NMF problem. Intensive experiments are conducted and demonstrate the advantages and characteristics of the proposed method.
Winner-takes-all: Competing Viruses on fair-play networks
WinnerTakesAll
Given two competing products (or memes, or viruses etc.) spreading over a given network, can we predict what will happen at the end, that is, which product will 'win', in terms of highest market share? One may naively expect that the better product (stronger virus) will just have a larger footprint, proportional to the quality ratio of the products (or strength ratio of the viruses). However, we prove the surprising result that, under realistic conditions, for any graph topology, the stronger virus completely wipes-out the weaker one, thus not merely `winning' but `taking it all'. In addition to the proofs, we also demonstrate our result with simulations over diverse, real graph topologies, including the social-contact graph of the city of Portland OR (about 31 million edges and 1 million nodes) and internet AS router graphs. Finally, we also provide real data about competing products from Google-Insights, like Facebook-Myspace, and we show again that they agree with our analysis.
